README.md, before:

# HTTP Macros for Laravel

![the dragon code laravel http macros](https://preview.dragon-code.pro/the-dragon-code/http-macros.svg?brand=laravel&mode=dark)

[![Stable Version][badge_stable]][link_packagist]
[![Total Downloads][badge_downloads]][link_packagist]
[![Github Workflow Status][badge_build]][link_build]
[![License][badge_license]][link_license]

## Installation

To get the latest version of `HTTP Macros`, simply require the project using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org):

```Bash
composer require dragon-code/laravel-http-macros
```

## Configuration

If desired, you can publish the configuration file using the console command:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="DragonCode\\LaravelHttpMacros\\ServiceProvider"
```

If your application already has a `config/http.php` file, then you can simply add a new `macros` key from the
[configuration](config/http.php) file to it.

Here you can specify a list of your classes for registering macros.
Macro classes must inherit from the abstract class `DragonCode\LaravelHttpMacros\Macros\Macro`.

You can also redefine macro names using an associative array. For example:

```php
// Config
return [
    'macros' => [
        'response' => [
            ToDataMacro::class,
        ],
    ],
];

// Macro
Http::get()->toData(...);
```

```php
// Config
return [
    'macros' => [
        'response' => [
            'qwerty' => ToDataMacro::class,
        ],
    ],
];

// Macro
Http::get()->qwerty(...);
Http::get()->toData(...); // will be method not found exception
```

> Note
> 
> Please note that IDE hints will not work in this case.

## Usage

### As Class

The class instance will be returned.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Http;

// Returns a SomeData object
return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class);

// Will return a SomeData object generated from the JSON path
return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class, 'data.item');

// Returns the result of the callback execution
return Http::get()->toData(
    fn (array $data) => new SomeData(
        $data['data']['item']['id'],
        $data['data']['item']['title']
    )
);

// Returns the result of the callback execution from a custom JSON path
return Http::get()->toData(
    fn (array $data) => new SomeData($data['id'], $data['title']),
    'data.item'
);
```

> Note
>
> If a `from` method exists in a class, then it will be called to construct the object.
>
> Compatible with [Spatie Laravel Data](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-data).

```php
class SomeData
{
    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public string $title
    ) {}
    
    public static function from(array $data): static
    {
        return new static(...$data);
    }
}

return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class);
```

### As Collection

The `Illuminate\Support\Collection` object or an object inherited from it will be returned.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Http;

// Returns a collection of SomeData objects
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class);

// Returns a collection of SomeData objects formed from the JSON path
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class, 'data.item');

// Returns the result of the callback execution
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(
    fn (array $data) => collect([
        new SomeData(
            $data['data']['item']['id'],
            $data['data']['item']['title']
        ),
    ])
);

// Returns the result of the callback execution from a custom JSON path
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(
    fn (array $data) => collect([
        new SomeData(...$data),
    ]),
    'data.item'
);
```

> Note
>
> If a `collect` method exists in a class, then it will be called to construct the collection.
>
> Compatible with [Spatie Laravel Data](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-data).

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Collection;

class SomeData
{
    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public string $title
    ) {}
    
    public static function collect(array $items): Collection
    {
        return collect($items)->map(
            fn (array $item) => new static(...$item)
        );
    }
}

return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class);
```

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


[badge_build]:          https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros/phpunit.yml?style=flat-square

[badge_downloads]:      https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_license]:        https://img.shields.io/packagist/l/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_stable]:         https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros?label=packagist&style=flat-square

[link_build]:           https://github.com/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros/actions

[link_license]:         LICENSE

[link_packagist]:       https://packagist.org/packages/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros

Commit message:

Added command to generate helper files for IDE

README.md, after:

# HTTP Macros for Laravel

![the dragon code laravel http macros](https://preview.dragon-code.pro/the-dragon-code/http-macros.svg?brand=laravel&mode=dark)

[![Stable Version][badge_stable]][link_packagist]
[![Total Downloads][badge_downloads]][link_packagist]
[![Github Workflow Status][badge_build]][link_build]
[![License][badge_license]][link_license]

## Installation

To get the latest version of `HTTP Macros`, simply require the project using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org):

```Bash
composer require dragon-code/laravel-http-macros
```

## Configuration

If desired, you can publish the configuration file using the console command:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="DragonCode\\LaravelHttpMacros\\ServiceProvider"
```

If your application already has a `config/http.php` file, then you can simply add a new `macros` key from the
[configuration](config/http.php) file to it.

Here you can specify a list of your classes for registering macros.
Macro classes must inherit from the abstract class `DragonCode\LaravelHttpMacros\Macros\Macro`.

You can also redefine macro names using an associative array. For example:

```php
// Config
return [
    'macros' => [
        'response' => [
            ToDataMacro::class,
        ],
    ],
];

// Macro
Http::get()->toData(...);
```

```php
// Config
return [
    'macros' => [
        'response' => [
            'qwerty' => ToDataMacro::class,
        ],
    ],
];

// Macro
Http::get()->qwerty(...);
Http::get()->toData(...); // will be method not found exception
```

> Note
>
> Please note that IDE hints will not work in this case.

## Usage

### As Class

The class instance will be returned.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Http;

// Returns a SomeData object
return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class);

// Will return a SomeData object generated from the JSON path
return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class, 'data.item');

// Returns the result of the callback execution
return Http::get()->toData(
    fn (array $data) => new SomeData(
        $data['data']['item']['id'],
        $data['data']['item']['title']
    )
);

// Returns the result of the callback execution from a custom JSON path
return Http::get()->toData(
    fn (array $data) => new SomeData($data['id'], $data['title']),
    'data.item'
);
```

> Note
>
> If a `from` method exists in a class, then it will be called to construct the object.
>
> Compatible with [Spatie Laravel Data](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-data).

```php
class SomeData
{
    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public string $title
    ) {}
    
    public static function from(array $data): static
    {
        return new static(...$data);
    }
}

return Http::get()->toData(SomeData::class);
```

### As Collection

The `Illuminate\Support\Collection` object or an object inherited from it will be returned.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Http;

// Returns a collection of SomeData objects
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class);

// Returns a collection of SomeData objects formed from the JSON path
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class, 'data.item');

// Returns the result of the callback execution
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(
    fn (array $data) => collect([
        new SomeData(
            $data['data']['item']['id'],
            $data['data']['item']['title']
        ),
    ])
);

// Returns the result of the callback execution from a custom JSON path
return Http::get()->toDataCollection(
    fn (array $data) => collect([
        new SomeData(...$data),
    ]),
    'data.item'
);
```

> Note
>
> If a `collect` method exists in a class, then it will be called to construct the collection.
>
> Compatible with [Spatie Laravel Data](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-data).

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Collection;

class SomeData
{
    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public string $title
    ) {}
    
    public static function collect(array $items): Collection
    {
        return collect($items)->map(
            fn (array $item) => new static(...$item)
        );
    }
}

return Http::get()->toDataCollection(SomeData::class);
```

### Generate IDE Helper files

You can generate helper files for the IDE using the console command:

```Bash
php artisan http:macros-helper
```

This will help your IDE suggest methods.

![IDE Helper](.github\images\ide-helper.png)

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


[badge_build]:          https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros/phpunit.yml?style=flat-square

[badge_downloads]:      https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_license]:        https://img.shields.io/packagist/l/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_stable]:         https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros?label=packagist&style=flat-square

[link_build]:           https://github.com/TheDragonCode/laravel-http-macros/actions

[link_license]:         LICENSE

[link_packagist]:       https://packagist.org/packages/dragon-code/laravel-http-macros
